Feature/r10.18.0  cdh 4491 (#1837)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/datahub/running-datahub-on-the-edge-bundle/setting-up-datahub-edge-on-k8s.md

---
weight: 20
title: Setting up Cumulocity IoT DataHub Edge on Kubernetes
layout: redirect
---

### Prerequisites

Before setting up {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub Edge on Kubernetes, you must check the following prerequisites:

| Item | Details |
| -----   | -----   |

> | Kubernetes | A Linux machine with admin access using kubectl and helm to Kubernetes target environment, bash and jq command line tool must be available |

Author: Fixed wording

| {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge on Kubernetes  | The corresponding version of {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge is set up in the Kubernetes environment. See also section https://cumulocity.com/guides/10.17.0/edge-k8s/installing-edge-on-k8 |

> | {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub Edge on Kubernetes archive | You have downloaded the archive datahub-edgek8s.tar from the [{{< company-sag >}} {{< sag-portal >}}]({{< link-sag-portal >}}). |

Author: Yes, it is a tar: all reasonably big files are already zipped

| Internet access | Internet access is required. |
| Registry and repository access | Access to artifact registry and repository |

#### Hardware requirements

> The hardware requirements for running a bare {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge instance are described in section [Requirements](/edge/installation#prerequisites). 

Author: Changed - to be verified in rendered representation.

> When {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub Edge on Kubernetes is deployed on top, the hardware requirements of the virtual machine are as follows:

Reviewer: When {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub Edge on Kubernetes is deployed on top, the RESOURCE requirements change as follows:

Author: @doernemt wording changed, but: these resource requirements are *on top*, correct? 
We might want to use a wording like "..., the ADDITIONAL resource requirements are" or "..., the resource requirements INCREASE BY following values:"

??? (Tim)
* 100 GB of free disk space plus sufficient free disk space for the data lake contents
* Recommended: additional 8 GB RAM
* Recommended: 6-8 additional logical CPU cores (Dremio: 5, MySQL: 1, DataHub microservice: 1)

### Setting up {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub Edge on Kubernetes

Subsequently, we assume that {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge on Kubernetes has been installed using the default Kubernetes namespace *c8yedge*. If another namespace has been chosen, you need to adapt the  commands and configuration files accordingly.

* Extract the archive datahub-edgek8s.tar to an working folder of your choice using the following command
```
tar -xvf datahub-edgek8s.tar
```  
  It should contain the following files: 
  
| File | Requires Adaptation | Purpose |
| -----   | -----   |-----   |
| install.sh | - | The installation script, requires bash and jq for execution |
| datahub-config.json | yes | Primary configuration file for DataHub installation |

> | dremio-values.yaml | Configuration for deployment of Dremio |

Reviewer: Seems inconsistent. Column title is "Requires Adaption". First line: yes, this line: WHAT needs to be changed

Author: Fixed

| dremio-helmchart.tar.gz | - | Helm chart used for deployment of Dremio |

> | mysql-values.yaml | Configuration for deployment of MySQL database used to store DataHub configuration data |

Reviewer: See above

Author: Fixed

| datahub-mysql-helmchart.tar.gz | - | Helm chart used for deployment of MySQL |
| datahub.zip | - | DataHub microservice |
| datahub-webapp.zip | - | DataHub web application |

Note that images for MySQL, Dremio and some auxiliary images (busybox) are downloaded during the installation. 
Hence, internet connectivity is required.

#### Adapting datahub-config.json

You have to apply the following changes:
* Change the Kubernetes namespace if you have configured {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge on Kubernetes to use a namespace different from 'c8yedge'. 
* Specify the username and password for admin access to Dremio
* Set the password for the root user in MySQL

#### Configuring Deployment of Dremio via dremio-values.yaml

Here you have to provide the name of the <CRITICAL_STORAGE_CLASS> used by a persistent volume claim in the Dremio helm chart.
It is used to create a persistent volume holding metadata persisted by the Dremio master.

Furthermore, the distrbuted storage as well as the datalake storage needs to be clarified.
It needs to be available as a volume mounted into the Dremio master pod.

> The mount path (e.g. "/datalake") then needs to be specified when configuring the initial settings in the DataHub UI, 

Reviewer: Why do we give a choice here? Mount path IS /datalake

Author: Mount path "/datalake" is now fixed, no more mentioned in documentation

??? (Tim) can we refer to Dremio deployment documentation?

The credentials $DREMIO_USER and $DREMIO_PASSWORD are substituted by the installation script.

Also, you may modify especially memory settings for Dremio master and executor. 

> However, there are installation constraints checked by the installation procedure which may not be exceeded:

Reviewer: licensing constraints

Author: Fixed

* max 48 GB RAM for each, master and executor
* number of executors must be 1

#### Configuring Deployment of MySQL via mysql-values.yaml

Here you have to provide the name of the <STORAGE_CLASS> used by a persistent volume claim in the MySQL helm chart.
It is used to create a persistent volume for storing persistent data of the MySQL database.

The credentials $MYSQL_USER and $MYSQL_PASSWORD are substituted by the installation script.

#### Running the Installation Script

Execute the following commands to prepare the required persistent volumes:
```shell
./install.sh -a
```

#### Using {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub Edge on Kubernetes

> After you have logged in to Cumulocity UI using the browser of your choice you should be able to navigate to the DataHub webapp as for any cloud setup.

Reviewer: The product behaves like the Cloud and Edge appliance version. Please refer to the general documentation.

Author: Changed

### Validation of DataHub Installation

> If that does not work, you may go through the validation stepes described below. 

Reviewer: If the product doesn't work as intended after the installation, please go through the validation steps described below.

Author: Adapted wording

#### MySQL 

You can monitor the startup of the MySQL pod *datahub-mysql-0* using
```shell

> kubectl get pods -n c8yedge datahub-mysql-0 --watch

Reviewer: Why no expected output here?

...
zk-0              1/1            Running         0                6m34s
dremio-executor-0 1/1            Running         0                6m34s
dremio-master-0   1/1            Running         0                6m34s
```

When running the command
```shell
kubectl get svc -n c8yedge
```

the output should be similar to 

```
NAME              TYPE              CLUSTER-IP              EXTERNAL-IP               PORT(S)                                         AGE
dremio-client     LoadBalancer      10.43.66.19             172.23.161.181            31010:32334/TCP,9047:30333/TCP,32010:31297/TCP  9m33s
```

#### DataHub Microservice

When logged in to Cumulocity UI you should see the DataHub microservice in 
    Administration > Ecosystem > Microservices

You can monitor the startup of the DataHub microservice pod *datahub-scope-edge-deployment-....* using
```shell
kubectl get pods -n c8yedge --watch
```

The status *Running* indicates that the pod has started successfully:
```
NAMESPACE     NAME                                            READY   STATUS      RESTARTS    AGE
...
c8yedge       datahub-scope-edge-deployment-7985c88469-xg8pc  1/1     Running     0           16m

> ```

Reviewer: Note: the exact name of the microservice instance varies, but it is always prefixed with `datahub-scope-edge-deployment-'

Author: replaced suffix by "XXXXXXXXXX-YYYYY"

#### DataHub Web Application

> When logged in to Cumulocity UI you should see the DataHub web application in 

Reviewer: It should also be present in the usual {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Application Switcher.

Author: Added

---
weight: 20
title: Setting up Cumulocity IoT DataHub Edge on Kubernetes
layout: redirect
---

> In this setup the application is deployed into a Kubernetes environment using an operator. The {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub backend is run as a microservice within the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform. The Dremio master and executor are deployed as a set of Kubernetes pods.

Author: Changed

### Prerequisites

Before setting up {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub Edge on Kubernetes, you must check the following prerequisites:

| Item | Details |
| -----   | -----   |
| Kubernetes | A Linux machine with admin access, bash and jq command line tools, as well as kubectl and helm command line tools. |
| {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge on Kubernetes  | The corresponding version of {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge being set up in the Kubernetes environment; see also [Installing Cumulocity IoT Edge on Kubernetes](https://cumulocity.com/guides/10.17.0/edge-k8s/installing-edge-on-k8) |
| {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub Edge on Kubernetes archive | You have downloaded the archive **datahub-edgek8s.tar** from the [{{< company-sag >}} {{< sag-portal >}}]({{< link-sag-portal >}}). |
| Internet access | Internet access is required. |
| Registry and repository access | Access to artifact registry and repository is required. |

> TODO @UPO: Which registry and repository?

Author: Done

TODO @Tim
 * 100 GB of free disk space plus sufficient free disk space for the data lake contents
 * Intel x86 CPU
 * Recommended: 20 GB RAM, minimum: 16 GB RAM
 * Recommended: 12 logical CPU cores, minimum: 10 logical CPU cores
 * One NIC

 Hardware requirements for the host OS are excluded.

### Setting up {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub Edge on Kubernetes

Subsequently, it is assumed that {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge on Kubernetes has been installed using the default Kubernetes namespace **c8yedge**. If another namespace has been chosen, you need to adapt the commands and configuration files accordingly.

Extract the archive **datahub-edgek8s.tar** to a working folder of your choice.
```
tar -xvf datahub-edgek8s.tar
```  
The folder will contain the following files: 
  
| File | Purpose | Adaptation required |
| -----   | -----   |-----   |
| install.sh | Installation script, which requires bash and jq command line tools for execution | | -
| datahub-config.json | Primary configuration file for DataHub installation | yes |
| dremio-values.yaml | Deployment configuration for Dremio | - |
| dremio-helmchart.tar.gz | Helm chart used for Dremio deployment | - |

> | mysql-values.yaml | Deployment configuration for MySQL database, which is used to store configuration data | - |

Reviewer 2: - [ ] Don't we need to adapt dremio-values.yaml and mysql-values.yaml files? In which case, the last column should have YES

| datahub-mysql-helmchart.tar.gz | Helm chart used for MySQL deployment  | - |
| datahub.zip | {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub backend packaged as microservice | - |
| datahub-webapp.zip | {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub web application | - |

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
Internet connectivity is required as the MySQL image, the Dremio image and some auxiliary images (busybox) are downloaded during the installation.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

#### Adapting datahub-config.json

You have to apply the following changes:
* If your {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge on Kubernetes configuration does not use **c8yedge** as namespace, change the Kubernetes namespace accordingly. 
* Specify the username and password for admin access to Dremio.
* Set the password for the root user in MySQL.

#### Configuring Dremio deployment via dremio-values.yaml

The **dremio-values.yaml** file contains the configuration settings for the Dremio deployment. It needs to be adapted as follows:

The Dremio master uses a persistent volume to persist its metadata. The persistent volume claim is defined in the Dremio helm chart. You have to provide the name of the **<CRITICAL_STORAGE_CLASS>** used by that claim.

> The distributed storage as well as the datalake storage need to be available as a volume mounted into the Dremio master pod. The mount path (e.g. "/datalake") then needs to be specified when configuring the initial settings in the DataHub UI.

Reviewer 2: - [ ] Not clear what should the values be for "distStorage" and <DATALAKE_CONFIGURATION>
- [ ] Are these mandatory, if so, can we have some default values?

Author: Hi @bbyreddy 
this has been simplified now. Please check modified documentation.
Also, you might go through a second installation if you are interested.

TODO @Tim: can we refer to Dremio deployment documentation?

The **$DREMIO_USER** and **$DREMIO_PASSWORD** credentials need to be provided. They are substituted during installation.

In case you want to modify memory settings for Dremio master or executor, you must not exceed the following constraints:
* at maximum 48 GB RAM for each, master and executor
* only one executor

These constraints are checked during the installation procedure.

#### Configuring Deployment of MySQL via mysql-values.yaml

The **mysql-values.yaml** file contains the configuration settings for the MySQL deployment. It needs to be adapted as follows:

The MySQL database uses a persistent volume to persist its data. The persistent volume claim is defined in the MySQL helm chart. You have to provide the name of the **<STORAGE_CLASS>** used by that claim.

The **$MYSQL_USER** and **$MYSQL_PASSWORD** credentials need to be provided. They are substituted during installation.

#### Running the installation script

> Execute the following command to prepare the required persistent volumes:

Reviewer 2: - [ ] Does ./install.sh -a just creates the required persistent volumes or even install the product?

Author: Left over from preceding (10.17) version of documentation - of course it triggers the documentation.

layout: redirect
---

In this setup the application is deployed into a Kubernetes environment using an operator. The {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub backend is run as a microservice within the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform. The Dremio master and executor are deployed as a set of the Kubernetes pods.

### Prerequisites

Before setting up {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub Edge on Kubernetes, you must check the following prerequisites:

| Item | Details |
| -----   | -----   |
| Kubernetes | An environment with bash, jq, and administrator access to Kubernetes via kubectl and helm command line tools. |
| {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge on Kubernetes  | The corresponding version of {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge being set up in the Kubernetes environment; see also [Installing {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge on Kubernetes](/guides/10.17.0/edge-k8s/installing-edge-on-k8) |
| {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub Edge on Kubernetes archive | You have downloaded the archive *datahub-edgek8s.tar* from the [{{< company-sag >}} {{< sag-portal >}}]({{< link-sag-portal >}}). |
| Internet access | Internet access is required. |

#### Resource requirements

> The resource requirements for running a bare {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge instance are described in [Requirements](/edge-k8s/installing-edge-on-k8/#prerequisites). 

Author: No - this is a subsection of a section called "Prerequisites". 
Similarly, for old documentation of installation on Edge appliance, we have "Hardware requirements" as a subsection of "Prerequisites".
For installation on Edge on Kubernetes we have just replaced the term "Hardware" by "Resource" due to the virtual nature of the target environment.

dremio-executor-0 1/1            Running         0                6m34s
dremio-master-0   1/1            Running         0                6m34s
```

When running the command:
```shell
kubectl get svc -n c8yedge
```

The output will be similar to:

```
NAME              TYPE              CLUSTER-IP              EXTERNAL-IP               PORT(S)                                         AGE
dremio-client     LoadBalancer      XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX         XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX           31010:XXXXX/TCP,9047:XXXXX/TCP,32010:XXXXX/TCP  9m33s
```

#### {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub microservice

When logged into {{< product-c8y-iot >}} UI, the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub microservice is available under *Administration > Ecosystem > Microservices*.

You can monitor the startup of the microservice pod "datahub-scope-edge-deployment-...." using
```shell
kubectl get pods -n c8yedge --watch
```

The status "Running" indicates that the pod has started successfully:
```
NAMESPACE     NAME                                            READY   STATUS      RESTARTS    AGE
...
c8yedge       datahub-scope-edge-deployment-XXXXXXXXXX-YYYYY  1/1     Running     0           16m
```

> #### DataHub Web Application

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### DataHub web application
```

When logged into the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} UI, the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub web application is available under *Administration > Ecosystem > Applications*.

> It should also be present in the usual {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Application Switcher.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It should also be present in the usual {{< product-c8y-iot >}} application switcher.
```

---
weight: 20
title: Setting up Cumulocity IoT DataHub Edge on Kubernetes
layout: redirect
---

In this setup the application is deployed into a Kubernetes environment using an operator. The {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub backend is run as a microservice within the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform. The Dremio master and executor are deployed as a set of Kubernetes pods.

### Prerequisites

Before setting up {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub Edge on Kubernetes, you must check the following prerequisites:

| Item | Details |
| -----   | -----   |

> | Kubernetes | An environment with bash, jq, and admin access to Kubernetes via kubectl and helm command line tools. |

Author: Fixed

> | {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge on Kubernetes  | The corresponding version of {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge being set up in the Kubernetes environment; see also [Installing Cumulocity IoT Edge on Kubernetes](https://cumulocity.com/guides/10.17.0/edge-k8s/installing-edge-on-k8) |

Author: Fixed

| {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub Edge on Kubernetes archive | You have downloaded the archive **datahub-edgek8s.tar** from the [{{< company-sag >}} {{< sag-portal >}}]({{< link-sag-portal >}}). |
| Internet access | Internet access is required. |

#### Resource requirements

The resource requirements for running a bare {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge instance are described in section [Requirements](/edge-k8s/installing-edge-on-k8/#prerequisites). 
When {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub Edge on Kubernetes is deployed on top, the resource requirements change by following additional amount:

 * 100 GB of free disk space plus sufficient free disk space for the data lake contents
 * Recommended: 16 GB RAM, minimum: 10 GB RAM
 * Recommended: 10 logical CPU cores, minimum: 6 logical CPU cores

 Hardware requirements for the host OS are excluded.

### Setting up {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub Edge on Kubernetes

> Subsequently, it is assumed that {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge on Kubernetes has been installed using the default Kubernetes namespace **c8yedge**. If another namespace has been chosen, you need to adapt the commands and configuration files accordingly.

Author: Changed

> Subsequently, it is assumed that {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge on Kubernetes has been installed using the default Kubernetes namespace **c8yedge**. If another namespace has been chosen, you need to adapt the commands and configuration files accordingly.

Author: Done

#### Configuring Deployment of MySQL via mysql-values.yaml

The **mysql-values.yaml** file contains the configuration settings for the MySQL deployment. It needs to be adapted as follows:

The MySQL database uses a persistent volume to persist its data. The persistent volume claim is defined in the MySQL helm chart. You have to provide the name of the **<STORAGE_CLASS>** used by that claim.

The **$MYSQL_PASSWORD** is substituted during installation based on the value provided in datahub-config.json. 

#### Running the installation script

Execute the following command to install {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub Edge on Kubernetes:
```shell
./install.sh -a
```

#### Add entry to /etc/hosts

In order to access Dremio, the following entry needs to be added to /etc/hosts:
```
<IP address>   datahub.<domain_name>
```
where **domain_name** is the domain name chosen during the installation of {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge on Kubernetes.
 
The **IP address** can be obtained using
```shell
kubectl get service -n c8yedge cumulocity-core -o jsonpath={.status.loadBalancer.ingress[*].ip}
```

#### Using {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub Edge on Kubernetes

> After you have logged into the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} UI, you should be able to navigate to the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub UI by selecting the corresponding entry in the application switcher.

Author: Wording had been changed already as suggested by Tim:
"{{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub Edge on Kubernetes behaves like the Cloud and Edge appliance version. Please refer to the general documentation."

---
weight: 20
title: Setting up Cumulocity IoT DataHub Edge on Kubernetes
layout: redirect
---

> In this setup the application is deployed into a Kubernetes environment using an operator. The {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub backend is run as a microservice within the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform. The Dremio master and executor are deployed as a set of Kubernetes pods.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In this setup the application is deployed into a Kubernetes environment using an operator. The {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub backend is run as a microservice within the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform. The Dremio master and executor are deployed as a set of the Kubernetes pods.
```

### Prerequisites

Before setting up {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub Edge on Kubernetes, you must check the following prerequisites:

| Item | Details |
| -----   | -----   |
| Kubernetes | An environment with bash, jq, and administrator access to Kubernetes via kubectl and helm command line tools. |

> | {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge on Kubernetes  | The corresponding version of {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge being set up in the Kubernetes environment; see also [Installing {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge on Kubernetes](https://cumulocity.com/guides/10.17.0/edge-k8s/installing-edge-on-k8) |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge on Kubernetes  | The corresponding version of {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge being set up in the Kubernetes environment; see also [Installing {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge on Kubernetes](/guides/10.17.0/edge-k8s/installing-edge-on-k8) |
```

> | {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub Edge on Kubernetes archive | You have downloaded the archive **datahub-edgek8s.tar** from the [{{< company-sag >}} {{< sag-portal >}}]({{< link-sag-portal >}}). |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub Edge on Kubernetes archive | You have downloaded the archive *datahub-edgek8s.tar* from the [{{< company-sag >}} {{< sag-portal >}}]({{< link-sag-portal >}}). |
```

| Internet access | Internet access is required. |

#### Resource requirements

> The resource requirements for running a bare {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge instance are described in section [Requirements](/edge-k8s/installing-edge-on-k8/#prerequisites). 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The resource requirements for running a bare {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge instance are described in [Requirements](/edge-k8s/installing-edge-on-k8/#prerequisites). 
```

When {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub Edge on Kubernetes is deployed on top, the resource requirements change by following additional amount:

 * 100 GB of free disk space plus sufficient free disk space for the data lake contents
 * Recommended: 16 GB RAM, minimum: 10 GB RAM
 * Recommended: 10 logical CPU cores, minimum: 6 logical CPU cores

 Hardware requirements for the host OS are excluded.

### Setting up {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub Edge on Kubernetes

> Subsequently, it is assumed that {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge on Kubernetes has been installed using the default Kubernetes namespace **c8yedge**. If another namespace has been chosen, you must adapt the commands and configuration files accordingly.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Subsequently, it is assumed that {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge on Kubernetes has been installed using the default Kubernetes namespace ``c8yedge``. If another namespace has been chosen, you must adapt the commands and configuration files accordingly.
```

| datahub.zip | {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub backend packaged as microservice | - |
| datahub-webapp.zip | {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub web application | - |

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
Internet connectivity is required as the MySQL image, the Dremio image and some auxiliary images (busybox) are downloaded during the installation.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

#### Adapting datahub-config.json

You have to apply the following changes:
* If your {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge on Kubernetes configuration does not use ``c8yedge`` as namespace, change the Kubernetes namespace accordingly. 
* Specify the username and password for admin access to Dremio. The password must have at least 8 characters, including at least 1 letter and 1 digit.
* Set the password for the root user in MySQL.

#### Configuring Dremio deployment via dremio-values.yaml

The *dremio-values.yaml* file contains the configuration settings for the Dremio deployment. It needs to be adapted as follows:

The Dremio master uses a persistent volume to persist its metadata. The persistent volume claim is defined in the Dremio helm chart. You have to provide the name of the ``<CRITICAL_STORAGE_CLASS>`` used by that claim.

> The datalake storage needs to be available as a volume mounted into the Dremio master and executor pods. The mount path (typically "/datalake") later needs to be specified when configuring the initial settings in the DataHub UI.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The datalake storage needs to be available as a volume mounted into the Dremio master and executor pods. The mount path (typically ``/datalake``) later needs to be specified when configuring the initial settings in the DataHub UI.
```

The respective configuration in dremio-values.yaml may look as follows:
```
    datalakeNFS:
         enabled: true
         mountPath: /datalake
		 hostPath: <PATH_ON_HOST>
```
If your Kubernetes cluster has only a single worker node, both pods are running on the same node and **<PATH_ON_HOST>** refers to a path on that node.
Please assert that the folder does already exist.

The **distributed storage** also needs to be available as a volume mounted into the Dremio master and executor pods.

> The respective configuration in dremio-values.yaml may look as follows:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The respective configuration in *dremio-values.yaml* may look as follows:
```

```
distStorage:
    type: nfs
    nfs:
        mountPath: <MOUNT_PATH>
```

> If your Kubernetes cluster has only a single worker node, that means, both pods are running on the same node and you can use a subfolder of */datalake* mounted to a hostpath as shown above.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If your Kubernetes cluster has only a single worker node, that means, both pods are running on the same node and you can use a subfolder of ``/datalake`` mounted to a hostpath as shown above.
```

> If your Kubernetes cluster has only a single worker node, i.e. both pods are running on the same node and you can use a subfolder of /datalake mounted to a hostpath as shown above.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If your Kubernetes cluster has only a single worker node, that means, both pods are running on the same node and you can use a subfolder of */datalake* mounted to a hostpath as shown above.
```

This may lead e.g. to the following configuration  
```
distStorage:
    type: nfs
    nfs:
        mountPath: /datalake/distributedStorage
```

> The **$DREMIO_USER** and **$DREMIO_PASSWORD** credentials are substituted during installation based on the values provided in datahub-config.json.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The ``$DREMIO_USER`` and ``$DREMIO_PASSWORD`` credentials are substituted during installation based on the values provided in *datahub-config.json*.
```

In case you want to modify resource settings for Dremio master or executor, you must not exceed the following constraints:
* at maximum 48 GB RAM for each, master and executor

> * only one executor

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Only one executor
```

These constraints are checked during the installation procedure.

#### Configuring Deployment of MySQL via mysql-values.yaml

The **mysql-values.yaml** file contains the configuration settings for the MySQL deployment. It needs to be adapted as follows:

The MySQL database uses a persistent volume to persist its data. The persistent volume claim is defined in the MySQL helm chart. You have to provide the name of the **<STORAGE_CLASS>** used by that claim.

> The **$MYSQL_PASSWORD** is substituted during installation based on the value provided in datahub-config.json. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The ``$MYSQL_PASSWORD`` is substituted during installation based on the value provided in *datahub-config.json*. 
```

#### Running the installation script

Execute the following command to install {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub Edge on Kubernetes:
```shell
./install.sh -a
```

#### Add entry to /etc/hosts

> In order to access Dremio, the following entry needs to be added to */etc/hosts*:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In order to access Dremio, the following entry needs to be added to ``/etc/hosts``:
```

> In order to access Dremio, the following entry needs to be added to /etc/hosts:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In order to access Dremio, the following entry needs to be added to */etc/hosts*:
```

```
<IP address>   datahub.<domain_name>
```

> where **domain_name** is the domain name chosen during the installation of {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge on Kubernetes.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
where ``domain_name`` is the domain name chosen during the installation of {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge on Kubernetes.
```

 
The **IP address** can be obtained using
```shell
kubectl get service -n c8yedge cumulocity-core -o jsonpath={.status.loadBalancer.ingress[*].ip}
```

#### Using {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub Edge on Kubernetes

> {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub Edge on Kubernetes behaves like the Cloud and Edge appliance version. Please refer to the general documentation.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
{{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub Edge on Kubernetes behaves like the Cloud and Edge appliance version.
```

### Validation of {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub Installation

> In case of problems, run the following validation steps:

Reviewer 4: @UlrichPost The steps are missing, I gather this is the part that is still to be done?

Author: No - the section "Configuring Dremio deployment via dremio-values.yaml required updates.

#### MySQL 

> You can monitor the startup of the MySQL pod **datahub-mysql-0** using

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can monitor the startup of the MySQL pod ``datahub-mysql-0`` using
```

```shell
kubectl get pods -n c8yedge datahub-mysql-0 --watch
```

> The result should be similar to:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The result will be similar to:
```

```
NAME              READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
datahub-mysql-0   1/1     Running   0          4m55s
```
    

> When running the command

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When running the command:
```

```shell
kubectl get svc -n c8yedge
```

> the output will be similar to:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The output will be similar to:
```

> the output should be similar to:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
the output will be similar to:
```

```
NAME          TYPE          CLUSTER-IP          EXTERNAL-IP          PORT(S)          AGE
mysql-client  ClusterIP     XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX     <none>               3306/TCP         10m
```

#### Dremio

> You can monitor the state of the Dremio pods *zk-0*, *dremio-executor-0*, and *dremio-master-0* using

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can monitor the state of the Dremio pods "zk-0", "dremio-executor-0", and "dremio-master-0" using
```

```shell
kubectl get pods -n c8yedge --watch
```

> The status *Running* indicates that the pods have started successfully:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The status "Running" indicates that the pods have started successfully:
```

```
NAME              READY          STATUS          RESTARTS         AGE
...
zk-0              1/1            Running         0                6m34s
dremio-executor-0 1/1            Running         0                6m34s
dremio-master-0   1/1            Running         0                6m34s
```

> When running the command

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When running the command:
```

```shell
kubectl get svc -n c8yedge
```

> the output will be similar to 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The output will be similar to:
```

> the output should be similar to 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
the output will be similar to 
```

```
NAME              TYPE              CLUSTER-IP              EXTERNAL-IP               PORT(S)                                         AGE
dremio-client     LoadBalancer      XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX         XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX           31010:XXXXX/TCP,9047:XXXXX/TCP,32010:XXXXX/TCP  9m33s
```

#### {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub microservice

When logged into {{< product-c8y-iot >}} UI, the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} DataHub microservice is available under *Administration > Ecosystem > Microservices*.

> You can monitor the startup of the microservice pod *datahub-scope-edge-deployment-....* using

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can monitor the startup of the microservice pod "datahub-scope-edge-deployment-...." using
```

Reviewer 4: @UlrichPost The "..." in the pod name is to be determined or is this part of the real name?

Author: @MWindel : "..." indicates that the suffix of the name may vary for every excecution / in every environment.

```shell
kubectl get pods -n c8yedge --watch
```

> The status *Running* indicates that the pod has started successfully:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The status "Running" indicates that the pod has started successfully:
```
